a beautiful witness is in
trouble it's being Hamid on all
sides by human encroachment
poaching and habitat degradation
and our mission is to save these
like cats dogs and all these
other species in our beautiful
ecosystem that means long valley
is indeed one of Africa's best
kept secrets
this environment is so awesome
that it is one of the last
remaining strongholds for lions
on the African continent
I have been very fortunate to
live in this beautiful
environment surrounded by wild
life and living here
I've been able to see animals
live in action previously i only
used to see them on a tiny black
and white TV but I was
fascinated even then my uncle
wax is a safari guide and he
always came home with wonderful
stories of animals that he made
during his work and those just
fascinated me
they encouraged me to join my
secondary school conservation
club so I could learn more about
these species
I found many fascinating things
about the animals in this place
but also really sad news
our ecosystem was under threat
from you know common things that
are affecting many other places
in the world human encroachment
poaching habitat destruction you
name them and so I decided then
meant to say i'm going to do
something about it
I decided to become a wildlife
that so I could help treat and
cure animals that had survived
bullet wounds from porches and
so I started really hard
I would stand at night really
late at night with my feet in a
bucket of cold water so i could
make the grades to get into
University
and that didn't work I was very
lucky I got admitted into the
private program it you bc in
Canada ready to go take on this
challenge to become a wildlife
it but you know it didn't go
down well as second year into
the program i discovered i could
not handle cutting anything with
a sharp knife and so my dream
for vet school crashed and
burned right there
he was so sad that spent so many
sleepless nights studying to do
this but it did not end there
I got diverted into a different
carrier part where I could still
help these animals
I currently work as a wildlife
biologist with the Zambian kind
of a program and our mission is
to save these large cuts wild
dogs my absolute favorite and
all these other species in our
beautiful ecosystem through
applied research and
community-based conservation
so my job is one of the best on
the planet
I get to see and touch animals
that had only seen in books and
magazines before and it's an
amazing experience
I get to collect key data on
survival on who's going where
who's eating what and what sort
of areas they're using in our
beautiful ecosystem a typical
day begins with me and my
partner in crime are Gibson
bandits not crime crime because
Gibson is a Wildlife police
officer with the Department of
Wildlife the national parks in
Zambia and he is a great person
to work with he's a comedian so
we're laughing all the time
he's a wonderful human gps he
knows the system like the back
of his hand and this is an area
the size of Yellowstone National
pack so it's great we get
carried away sometimes we out
for days we ran out of what time
we had to share water holes and
drinking . with people's
elephant and sometimes we get to
some really bad places you know
we get stuck and you getting
back on the road can take
anything between 15 minutes 24
hours sometimes the best we can
hope for is an entire afternoon
but it works out why able to get
around
and so this difficult task if
you call it is compensated by
even more beautiful pictures
like this one
our absolute favorite to see out
in the field is a male
strawberry blonde lion code
ginger
he is not in Virginia his
monster very blonde but
strawberry is not a good name
for a pepper mill life
so ginger has a brother code
garlic and garlic is irregular
lion
we always happy to see Gallic
he's a lion
what's not good about that
anyway
all of these wonderful seen all
of these amazing experiences in
the field lead to the sad
reality that we have to live
with animals are being affected
by the poaching crisis
fueled by the illegal bushmeat
trade these are not the targeted
species for the bushmeat trade
we do not eat lions we don't eat
wild dogs but people are going
for deer size until hope that
they can sell to urban areas and
all those places the methods
that they use a non-selective so
that means animals
anything that is obvious
shoulder height this short
height can get in and get caught
and the impacts are catastrophic
as you can see animals die and
animals lose their legs and that
is just pretty sad but we work
really hard to save as many
animals as we can and working
really closely with people that
are in the park all the time
helps us do what we do and these
animals
i'm happy to say made a complete
recovery animals do recover even
from injuries that as gruesome
is that just going to share one
story about a particularly
favorite line of mine who we
call funny ear very and
it's a very an imaginative name
for a really beautiful likeness
but funny there was a young line
is when i first started with a
Zambian carnival program she was
about a year and a half
she stands out because of high
ear that funny ear in 2010
she picked up a snare in her
travels with her president
it was pretty sad but likely the
people that supported her and
they reported to us and we're
able to go there check off this
Nair and she healed remarkably
well and so has story kinda ends
in a beautiful Disney stipe you
know that this dial ending
she got her brain's and well
couple princess because he's a
lioness in a prime really
beautiful and in 2015
we saw funny areas have first
liter of Cubs really amazing a
graduation ceremony of some
sorts so gives us hope to keep
on pushing and keep on working
and so we've had all about
getting people to care and every
society every culture has a
saying that goes in the line
children are the future and we
take that too hard to not wake
and we really tried to work
really hard with these
communities and these students
to just get them become
environmentally conscious
lawyers teachers nurses and
conservation leaders of the next
generation with that students
out in the field and not expose
them to add life in their
natural habitat and it's just an
amazing experience and these
kids love being out in the field
they don't want the field work
to stop
so it gives us hope two see that
they're ready to learn and
they're willing to go the extra
mile and along with this
condemnation education work we
want to impart skills that will
empower them going forward
so it skills like public
speaking writing computers that
can be taken for granted in the
developed world and in our
cities their students who have
the chance to get and sort of
equal footing almost with
regards to uni admission getting
employment anything other than
poaching and so last year with a
generous support from the big
cat initiative wherever to do a
human wildlife conflict study
focused entirely on
understanding people's
interactions to be cut and also
other carnivals
it was a nice opportunity for
students to get in the villages
talk to people share their
conservation message but also we
found have believed that there
is not as much conflict as we
thought
in our part of the world but
there was a lot of negative
perceptions about be cuts in
general we need to get people to
care about these issues and it
comes from us all of us that I
here talking to them about
experiences that we've had with
these animal
is a lease deal middle school
right here in DC and they did a
podcast on what it means to them
to conserve lions and I'm going
to quote one of what one of the
students said she said we need
to give be cuts and large
predators a chance
we are their only predator they
cannot survive without our help
thank you